docs/api.rst, before:

Go Metrics HTTP API
===================

Contents
--------

- :ref:`response-format-overview`
- :ref:`metric-types`
- :ref:`api-authentication`
- :ref:`api-methods`

    - :http:get:`/api/metrics`

.. _response-format-overview:

Response Format Overview
------------------------

Successful responses to GET requests will contain the requested data in json
format.

**Example response (success response)**:

.. sourcecode:: http

    HTTP/1.1 200 OK
    {
        ...
    }

Errors are returned with the relevant HTTP error code and a json object
containing ``status_code``, the HTTP status code, and ``reason``, the reason
for the error.

**Example response (error response)**:

.. sourcecode:: http

    HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request
    {
        "status_code": 400,
        "reason": "Bad Request"
    }


.. _metric-types

Metric Types
------------

Account Metrics
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Account metrics are metrics relevant to a particular account, but not
necessarily relevant to a particular conversation in the account. All metrics
published via Vumi Go javascript sandbox applications are account metrics. Account metric names take the form ``stores.<store_name>.<metric_name>.<agg_method>``:

    - ``store_name``: the namespace used for publishing the metrics (e.g.
      ``default``). For javascript sandbox applications, the store name matches
      the configured name for the app in the conversation config unless
      configured otherwise.
    - ``metric_name``: the name of the metric (e.g. ``questions_completed``).
    - ``agg_method``: the aggregation method used to publish metric values (e.g.
      ``last``).


Conversation Metrics
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Conversation metrics are metrics relevant only to a particular conversation,
for example, the total messages sent in the conversation. Conversation metric
names take the form ``conversations.<conv_id>.<metric_name>.<agg_method>``:

    - ``conv_id``: the UUID for the conversation.
    - ``metric_name``: the name of the metric (e.g. ``messages_sent``).
    - ``agg_method``: the aggregation method used to publish metric values (e.g.
      ``last``).

At the time of writing, conversation metrics are only fired by internal Vumi Go processes.


.. _null-handling


Null Handling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The value of each datapoint returned from graphite will often be ``null``. This
case happens when there is no value relevant to that particular time. The api
provides several ways of handling these null values:

  - *zeroize*: Turns each ``null`` into a ``0``.
  - *omit*: Returns the datapoints with ``null`` values omitted.
  - *keep*: Keeps the ``null`` values around.


.. _api-authentication:

API Authentication
------------------

Authentication is done using an OAuth bearer token.

**Example request**:

.. sourcecode:: http

    GET /api/metrics/ HTTP/1.1
    Host: example.com
    Authorization: Bearer auth-token

**Example response (success)**:

.. sourcecode:: http

    HTTP/1.1 200 OK

**Example response (failure)**:

.. sourcecode:: http

    HTTP/1.1 403 Forbidden

**Example response (no authorization header)**:

.. sourcecode:: http

    HTTP/1.1 401 Unauthorized


.. _api-methods:

API Methods
-----------

.. http:get:: /api/metrics/

    Retrieves the timestamp-value pairs of the metrics specified as query
    parameters.

    :query m: Name of a metric to be retrieved. Multiple may be specified. See
    :ref:`metric-types` for an overview of the metric name formats.

    :query from: The beginning time period to retrieve values from. Can be in
    any form accepted by graphite. See graphite's `from and until`_
    documentation. Defaults to 24 hours ago.

    :query until: The ending time period to retrieve values until. Can be in any
    form accepted by graphite. See graphite's `from and until`_ documentation.
    Defaults to the current time.

    :query interval: The size of the time buckets into which metric values
    should be summarized. Can be in any form accepted by graphite. See
    graphite's `functions`_ documentation. Defaults to ``1hour``.

    :query align_to_from: Align the time buckets into which metric values are
    summarized against to the given ``from`` time. Defaults to ``false``.

    :query nulls: The way null ``y`` values returned from graphite are handled.
    Allowed values are ``zeroize``, ``omit`` and ``keep``
    (see :ref:`null-handling`). Defaults to ``zeroize``.

    **Example request**:

    .. sourcecode:: http

        GET /api/metrics/?m=stores.a.a.last&m=stores.b.c.avg&from=-30d&until=-1d&interval=1day&align_to_from=true HTTP/1.1
        Host: example.com
        Authorization: Bearer auth-token

    **Example response (success)**:

    .. sourcecode:: http

        HTTP/1.1 200 OK

        {
            "stores.a.a.last": [{
              "x": 1405018164786,
              "y": 39598.0
            }, {
              "x": 1405104564786,
              "y": 36752.0
            }],
            "stores.b.c.avg": [{
              "x": 1405018164786,
              "y": 62431.0
            }, {
              "x": 1405104564786,
              "y": 72432.0
            }]
        }


   **Description of the JSON response attributes**:

   The response contains mappings between the metric names and an array of
   their timestamp-value pairs, where the pairs in the array are in ascending
   order of their timestamp values (from the earliest time to the latest time).
   
   Each pair contains the timestamp under the ``x`` field, and is formatted as
   the number of milliseconds elapsed since 1 January 1970 00:00:00 UTC.

   Each pair contains the value under the ``y`` field, and is formatted as a
   json number.


.. _from and until: http://graphite.readthedocs.org/en/latest/render_api.html#from-until
.. _functions: http://graphite.readthedocs.org/en/latest/functions.html#graphite.render.functions.summarize

Commit message:

Mention where null handling is configured in the docs

docs/api.rst, after:

Go Metrics HTTP API
===================

Contents
--------

- :ref:`response-format-overview`
- :ref:`metric-types`
- :ref:`api-authentication`
- :ref:`api-methods`

    - :http:get:`/api/metrics`

.. _response-format-overview:

Response Format Overview
------------------------

Successful responses to GET requests will contain the requested data in json
format.

**Example response (success response)**:

.. sourcecode:: http

    HTTP/1.1 200 OK
    {
        ...
    }

Errors are returned with the relevant HTTP error code and a json object
containing ``status_code``, the HTTP status code, and ``reason``, the reason
for the error.

**Example response (error response)**:

.. sourcecode:: http

    HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request
    {
        "status_code": 400,
        "reason": "Bad Request"
    }


.. _metric-types

Metric Types
------------

Account Metrics
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Account metrics are metrics relevant to a particular account, but not
necessarily relevant to a particular conversation in the account. All metrics
published via Vumi Go javascript sandbox applications are account metrics. Account metric names take the form ``stores.<store_name>.<metric_name>.<agg_method>``:

    - ``store_name``: the namespace used for publishing the metrics (e.g.
      ``default``). For javascript sandbox applications, the store name matches
      the configured name for the app in the conversation config unless
      configured otherwise.
    - ``metric_name``: the name of the metric (e.g. ``questions_completed``).
    - ``agg_method``: the aggregation method used to publish metric values (e.g.
      ``last``).


Conversation Metrics
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Conversation metrics are metrics relevant only to a particular conversation,
for example, the total messages sent in the conversation. Conversation metric
names take the form ``conversations.<conv_id>.<metric_name>.<agg_method>``:

    - ``conv_id``: the UUID for the conversation.
    - ``metric_name``: the name of the metric (e.g. ``messages_sent``).
    - ``agg_method``: the aggregation method used to publish metric values (e.g.
      ``last``).

At the time of writing, conversation metrics are only fired by internal Vumi Go processes.


.. _null-handling


Null Handling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The value of each datapoint returned from graphite will often be ``null``. This
case happens when there is no value relevant to that particular time. The api
provides several ways of handling these null values:

  - *zeroize*: Turns each ``null`` into a ``0``.
  - *omit*: Returns the datapoints with ``null`` values omitted.
  - *keep*: Keeps the ``null`` values around.

See :http:get:`/api/metrics/`\'s ``nulls`` query parameter to see how this
handling can be configured when querying the api for metrics.


.. _api-authentication:

API Authentication
------------------

Authentication is done using an OAuth bearer token.

**Example request**:

.. sourcecode:: http

    GET /api/metrics/ HTTP/1.1
    Host: example.com
    Authorization: Bearer auth-token

**Example response (success)**:

.. sourcecode:: http

    HTTP/1.1 200 OK

**Example response (failure)**:

.. sourcecode:: http

    HTTP/1.1 403 Forbidden

**Example response (no authorization header)**:

.. sourcecode:: http

    HTTP/1.1 401 Unauthorized


.. _api-methods:

API Methods
-----------

.. http:get:: /api/metrics/

    Retrieves the timestamp-value pairs of the metrics specified as query
    parameters.

    :query m: Name of a metric to be retrieved. Multiple may be specified. See
    :ref:`metric-types` for an overview of the metric name formats.

    :query from: The beginning time period to retrieve values from. Can be in
    any form accepted by graphite. See graphite's `from and until`_
    documentation. Defaults to 24 hours ago.

    :query until: The ending time period to retrieve values until. Can be in any
    form accepted by graphite. See graphite's `from and until`_ documentation.
    Defaults to the current time.

    :query interval: The size of the time buckets into which metric values
    should be summarized. Can be in any form accepted by graphite. See
    graphite's `functions`_ documentation. Defaults to ``1hour``.

    :query align_to_from: Align the time buckets into which metric values are
    summarized against to the given ``from`` time. Defaults to ``false``.

    :query nulls: The way null ``y`` values returned from graphite are handled.
    Allowed values are ``zeroize``, ``omit`` and ``keep``
    (see :ref:`null-handling`). Defaults to ``zeroize``.

    **Example request**:

    .. sourcecode:: http

        GET /api/metrics/?m=stores.a.a.last&m=stores.b.c.avg&from=-30d&until=-1d&interval=1day&align_to_from=true HTTP/1.1
        Host: example.com
        Authorization: Bearer auth-token

    **Example response (success)**:

    .. sourcecode:: http

        HTTP/1.1 200 OK

        {
            "stores.a.a.last": [{
              "x": 1405018164786,
              "y": 39598.0
            }, {
              "x": 1405104564786,
              "y": 36752.0
            }],
            "stores.b.c.avg": [{
              "x": 1405018164786,
              "y": 62431.0
            }, {
              "x": 1405104564786,
              "y": 72432.0
            }]
        }


   **Description of the JSON response attributes**:

   The response contains mappings between the metric names and an array of
   their timestamp-value pairs, where the pairs in the array are in ascending
   order of their timestamp values (from the earliest time to the latest time).
   
   Each pair contains the timestamp under the ``x`` field, and is formatted as
   the number of milliseconds elapsed since 1 January 1970 00:00:00 UTC.

   Each pair contains the value under the ``y`` field, and is formatted as a
   json number.


.. _from and until: http://graphite.readthedocs.org/en/latest/render_api.html#from-until
.. _functions: http://graphite.readthedocs.org/en/latest/functions.html#graphite.render.functions.summarize
